# CS-305_Project_2_Artemis_Financial
•	<b>Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?</b><br/>
	<em>Artemis Financial came to us as a financial consulting company needing to protect their client’s sensitive financial data. They had modernized their operations with a public web interface and needed to ensure their communications were secure via a file verification step. It is so, that they sought us to take their current software and integrate these secure communication mechanisms. </em>
    
•	<b>What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?</b><br/>
<em>I was proud of the work I did implementing the hash algorithm and creating the SSL certificate. The hash algorithm was important to implement because it protected the data and provided a way to confirm authenticity. Creating an SSL certificate using the Java keytool allowed the web application to have a secure connection, and therefore, secure communications.<br/>	
	Data is a truly valuable asset. Failing to implement practices for protecting it is not an option. Securely coding is so important because it is this line of defense against data loss. <br/>   	
	Software security is invaluable when it comes to a company’s wellbeing. It is multifaceted in its benefits as it works in favor of the company, shareholders, and consumers. Secure practices show the consumer that you care about their data, and so, a reputation for being trustworthy is built. A trustworthy reputation will gain, and retain, customers and this in turn will earn the confidence of shareholders. The company itself can save money implementing secure coding practices as they are proactive in securing their data.</em>

•<b>	What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?</b><br/>
<em>After having to manually inspect the code for vulnerabilities, I found the dependency check tool to be very helpful. It is of course very important to manually inspect a code since the dependency check report could include false positives. However, having this tool at your disposal can help save time and find some issues you may have missed when working through it on your own. It is also useful for maintenance of the program moving forward because it is something you can run a frequent basis and address any new issues that arise.</em>

•<b>	How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?</b><br/>
<em>My approach to figuring out what layers of security needed to be implemented was by using the tools I had at my disposal. The vulnerability diagram was a great reference guide as I manually reviewed the code. It helped me to discover the areas that were missing or needed to be addressed. The dependency check was a significant help as it provided additional insight into what needed to be added or fixed in the current program to ensure security.<br/>
	I would use a similar strategy to assess vulnerabilities in the future because it is a thorough approach. You shouldn’t rely on one source for your information, and this is true for vulnerabilities in your software.  Utilizing the dependency check provides a static check of the vulnerabilities and delivers them to you in a clean, detailed manner. Manually testing code helps you to discover areas that may show as false positives on your report and detect important practices that are missing. I think it is also important to have simulated functional attacks as they provide insight to weaknesses when the program goes live.</em>

•	<b>How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?</b><br/>
<em>To ensure the functionality and security of my application, I first made sure my code had no errors in the IDE and would produce a successful build. I then used my local host to check for the functionality of the site – was it doing what I wanted it to. This also allowed me to check that the SSL certificate was implemented, and that the connection was secure.<br/>
After refactoring the code, the dependency check was the final step in ensuring my code was secure. Running the dependency check provided evidence that no known, or new, vulnerabilities where introduced.  This is an important habit to get into since there is always the possibility that your addition of code introduced a new vulnerability, or bug.</em>


•	<b>What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?</b><br/> 
<em>I enjoyed utilizing the Java keytool to create, and store keys, for the SSL certificate. Working with this tool in the future will definitely be helpful for creating secure communications. This also got me into the habit of checking sites that show a secure connection for their certificate authority.<br/> 
Implementing the encryption algorithms, specifically SHA-256, was a great experience. Encryption is such a wonderfully powerful tool for securing data. There was certainly a learning curve when it came to understanding and implementing these algorithms, but I am so grateful for the experience. I look forward to implementing these in future projects.</em>

•<b>	Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?</b><br/>
	<em>Ideally, I would showcase the document itself. It shows that I have a thorough understanding of the importance of secure coding, experience implementing encryption algorithms, and how to secure communications with SSL certificate generation.  I am really proud of the work I did creating the hashFunction() so this is something that could be called out explicitly. </em>
